Fei=    Our Galaxy is now at the very edge of chaos: Klissans, unknown aggressors have already entered our borders. Unfortunately, we do not know what they want, we do not know how numerous they are or even what technology they possess. We have decided not to rely solely on regular army, and thus Galaxy Council forms regiments of volunteers, space rangers. In the capacity of one of them you, <Player> are given a difficult but realistic task of finding out weak spots of Klissans and the right strategy for destroying them, and therefore put an end to their aggression.
Fei=    You have the right to be engaged in any form of commercial activity, so that you have no problems in acquiring the products of new technology. A special information system has been developed to serve as a tool for coordinating the activity of all rangers. Be sure to use it often, it will help you to make right decisions. Be careful and thoughtful; remember that you cannot achieve everything by force only.
Fei=    There are still lots of criminals out in space, especially among the pesky Pelengs. Do not waste an excellent opportunity to free the Galaxy from such embarrassing phenomena. Strive to bring good to your people and the Commonwealth with all your heart. You are possibly their last hope.
Gaal=    At the borders of the Galaxy an unexpected danger has been reported: Klissans. So far, our information about them is limited to a bare minimum, and it does not allow any inferences as to their objectives or abilities. We cannot tell yet how to counteract them. At present, Galaxy Council has taken a decision to call for volunteers, space rangers, whose task will be to stop Klissans.
Gaal=    <Player>, your goal in the beginning will be to find the most adequate way to conduct military action against Klissans. In order for you to be able to improve your ship's equipment you get the right to be engaged in interplanetary trade as well as any other legal activities.
Gaal=    While the universal solution is unavailable, make your actions suited to tactical requirements. Be sure to use information centers for coordinating your action with the progress of other rangers. It is possible that you will be able to find a peaceful solution to the problem and there will be no more unnecessary casualties. In any case, remember that you are fully bound by the commitment to defend Galaxy from the aggressors.
Gaal=    The peoples of the Commonwealth do not want to live in peace with each other, however, you as a son of the oldest civilization should make every effort to be above petty political and racial quarrels. Respect the dignity of all ships and citizens, with no exception. However, if you see someone to cinically disregard the space law, you have the full right to bring them to justice.
Gaal=    Good luck, <Player>!
Maloc=    The world is in deadly danger. The whole Commonwealth of intelligent races seeks the ways for counteracting unknown enemy by the name of Klissans. According to the decision of Galaxy Council, you join the ranks of hundreds of other volunteers who will henceforth be known as space rangers. This is indeed a title of honor, but also a great responsibility.
Maloc=    At present, no effective means of stopping Klissans have been found. Their technology is much more advanced than ours, and it is likely that they exceed us in numbers. We do not know their principles of development or even their objectives. You have to find the answers to these questions, develop the tactics for destroying their ships and find a way to exterminate their civilization.
Maloc=    In order for you to be able to accomplish these objectives, we give you a free trade licence, which will enable you to replenish your finance. Trade is dirty work, we are aware of that, but in addition to that you also have the right to destroy pirate ships that violate the laws of our civilization. Our information centers will supply you with information on other rangers. Besides, you have the right to negotiate with representatives of other civilizations.
Maloc=    Serve your people well, treasure the honor of Maloq and be sure to help our ships in need. We will follow your actions closely, and hope that it is you, <Player>, who is going to become our Hero.
MsgCreateWorld=Creating universe, please wait...
Ok=Start game
Peleng=    Most races in our Galaxy believe that Klissans, these enigmatic aggressors, present a threat to the existence of the whole Commonwealth. Though we know very little of them, it is evident that they are in possession of significant military force. Even if this is indeed so, our fleets are surely quite adequate to deal with them.
Peleng=    However, Galaxy Council decided to be safer than safe and gave a call for volunteer fighters, space rangers, to go against Klissans. <Player>, here you have an excellent opportunity to show your personal abilities. Your objective is to find out what the weak spots of Klissans are and assist our regular regiments in destroying the enemy. If you wish, you can find out all about action of other rangers in the specialized information centers.
Peleng=    The finance is going to be no problem. You are free to conduct any kind of commercial activity. However, should the circumstances allow it, be flexible with the law. In short, act as a true Peleng. Try to use the potential of the new situation to bring prosperity to your people: only if we are together, we will achieve success in this cruel galactic community, where there are enemies behind every asteroid ring. The Commonwealth is still dominated by Humans and Fayeans, but we believe that if you manage to jump ahead of them and destroy Klissans all by yourself, our race will finally gain a worthy place in the Galaxy. Good luck, <Player>!
People=    The peoples of the Galaxy have encountered an unknown enemy, Klissans. We do not know anything either about their abilities or intentions. The attempts to negotiate resulted in failure.
People=    <Player>, you are now entering the force of space rangers, volunteer fighters, upon whom great hope is placed by Galaxy Council. From this moment your most important objective is to find out the ways of conducting effective combat against Klissans, develop effective tactics and then destroy the enemy. In order to be able to modernize your ship's equipment, you get a free hand in trade activity and financial operations.
People=    Remember, for achieving the ultimate goal all the rangers have to work in coordination, and we have created specialized information centers to serve this end. The general cause is all-important, and not just individual success. So do not be too ambitious, but be wise and diplomatic, seek active interaction with other civilizations and rangers. Should the circumstances permit you restrain pirates, however, this will be a valuable service to law enforcement ships.
People=    Remember that being a ranger is a huge responsibility. Be honest while trading, respect the laws of your race and those of all others. The Humanity counts on you. Good luck!
